Hello again, everyone.
Welcome back.
Again, my name is Allan Schaffe,
I'm the Game Technologies Evangelist
at Apple.
And this next session is really picking
up where Paul and Paul just left off.
So they talked about
the system technologies,
things like multitasking, security,
and so on.
And now I just want to keep on
going with that and talk about
some of the game technologies.
So for the next hour,
I'm really just going to take this
and split it right down the middle.
So I'll talk about the game technologies,
and then I'll talk about
the game technologies.
So I'll talk about
Game Center for the first half,
and then Game Controllers for
the second half of the session.
Now, I think as many of you
are already familiar with,
Game Center is Apple's
social gaming network.
We introduced it back in
iOS 4.1 several years ago.
And, you know,
it's really there to implement a
lot of the features that you all use
to drive engagement in your games.
You know, being able to play games,
along with friends,
and track leaderboards, post scores,
track achievements that
players earn in your game.
We recently added challenges to let
you challenge another person to beat
your score or to earn an achievement.
Then there's multiplayer.
We have synchronous multiplayer
for real-time gameplay,
and churn-based asynchronous
multiplayer as well.
Typically, in a session like this,
you might expect that I would stand up
and talk a lot about the new features
in Game Center and about adopting them,
but I want to do something
actually a little different with
this part of the session today.
Because really, as for part of my job,
I look at a lot of different games.
And, you know,
just as we saw here in the room,
a lot of you are already
using Game Center,
you're using the features,
and ultimately, it's a pretty simple
API for you to adopt.
And honestly, most developers are just,
they're doing the right
thing with the API itself.
So instead of talking about just adopting
the API and kind of the features of it,
what I want to do is give
you some strategies that you
can use to adopt the API.
And I think these are going to
be some relatively simple things,
simple ideas,
but the intention is really so that
I can demonstrate some things that
you can do with Game Center that
go beyond really just kind of the
simple use of scores for leaderboards
and tracking achievements and so on.
So three strategies.
Here is number one.
Think about ways that you can tie
the scores and achievements from
your players from Game Center right
back into the core of your gameplay.
And so what do I really mean by this?
You know,
let's say that you have this example.
You have an awesome tank
game up on the App Store.
It's single player.
You play against the computer.
And, you know, typically... When you're
playing the game,
okay, here we are.
The game ends.
You won, of course.
And the game under the hood is going
to post that score up to Game Center.
Now, from the player's perspective,
though,
posting that score was invisible to them.
So if they want to sort
of see how they're doing,
how they rank against their friends,
you know,
they're going to need to go and tap this
bottom that's down here at the bottom,
for example.
And bring up the leaderboard UI.
And, okay, this is all fine.
And they can see their score compared
to how their friends are doing.
And, of course,
this is exactly what many most games that
are using Game Center are doing today.
And it's perfectly fine.
[ Transcript missing ]
Okay, so that's just,
that's the nugget of the ideas,
to bring those things back into the
gameplay itself and think of ways
to kind of show that to the user.
But now, here are the ingredients that
you'll use to pull that off.
So, of course,
you want to get the data out
of the leaderboard and not
just have it show up in the UI.
So,
you can actually use the GK leaderboard
class to download the scores directly
from the Game Center service.
And so, it'll give you the score data for
the players or all of their friends,
or you can even get the global
leaderboard data as well.
So, once you have these scores,
you can see the player ID.
You can get the value.
You can get the value
of the score itself.
You can get their rank
on that leaderboard,
the date, you know,
the date when they posted that score,
and so on.
And then, once you have the player ID,
you could take that even
further if you wanted to.
You know,
you could load the player's nickname
and their photo and have that show
up in the game if they've provided
Game Center with a photo to display.
So, there's a lot that's there.
And, you know, really, this,
provides all of that raw data
that you need to be able to do
something that's a little more
interesting with their scores.
So, here's a quick code example
of doing exactly that.
So, let's say that I want to download out
of Game Center the top 50 scores for
my friends on a particular leaderboard.
So, I'm going to create a
GK leaderboard object.
And then here I configure it.
So, configure the request.
So, I'm saying, okay,
this particular leaderboard, tank game,
tanks blasted.
I'm going to set the time
scope to all time in this case.
Set the player scope to
just my friend's network.
And then set a range saying
I want the top 50 scores.
And now that that's set up,
I can just make this call
and fetch those scores out of
the Game Center leaderboard.
So,
I'm calling load scores with completion
handler and passing in just -- and
I'll get back an array of scores
and maybe an error if one occurs.
And so, now this array is going to have
those top 50 scores and my friends,
and I can walk through that
array and put that into the
gameplay itself and process those.
Okay.
Now, a few ways that you could go
even further with this same idea.
So, we recently introduced a new
style of leaderboard called the
most recent score leaderboard.
So, instead of holding your all-time best
score or fastest time or whatever,
it holds your most recent
score or your most recent time.
Now, essentially,
this is a leaderboard that's intended
for scores where your current state
will go up and down kind of as you're
playing the game multiple times.
You know, things like this may not be
the best example locally here,
but batting averages in
baseball or win-loss ratios or
poker chips in a tournament,
that sort of thing.
And those things can be really
compelling to your players.
The second one.
So you, the developer, you know,
the game knows what my
all-time best score was.
Obviously, it posted it to Game Center.
You have that information
from the leaderboard as well.
And, you know, just think,
if I pass that score,
the game could do something more special.
You know, present a banner or show
something that says,
okay, you've got a new high score
and tie that in somewhere.
And then just to note also,
the examples that I've been citing so
far are all dealing to do with scores,
but you could do the exact same
thing with achievements as well.
So rather than having
achievements be kind of passive,
just something that the player
learns later that they got
an achievement for something,
instead of that,
before the player starts the game or
before they go into the next level,
you could prime them with a score.
And then just to note also,
the examples that I've been citing so
far are all dealing to do with scores,
but you could prime them with a score.
So rather than having
achievements be kind of passive,
just something that the player
learns later that they got
an achievement for something,
instead of that,
before the player starts the game or
before they go into the next level,
you could prime them with a score.
But okay, so that is number one.
Tie your scores and achievements
back into your gameplay.
It's a really simple idea, of course,
but something that actually not
very many games are doing right now,
and the ones that are doing it,
it's really interesting
what they've done.
Okay, here's item number two.
Elevate challenges up
into your game UI as well.
So it's a real similar idea to
what I was just talking about,
but let's do a quick recap
of challenges before I go.
So within Game Center,
you can challenge a friend
to beat your score or to earn
a particular achievement.
And the idea is to bring kind
of an additional competitive
element into the game,
and particularly into
single-player games,
right?
Because it's going to drive
competition if I send you a challenge,
for example.
So, you know, let's say that, well,
there's two kinds of challenges.
The first is a score challenge.
And let's say that you and
I are friends in Game Center,
and I challenge you to beat... My score
that I got in a particular game.
So you'll get a push notification
that I've challenged you.
And then when you run the game, you know,
you can try and beat
the score that I got.
And but then, okay, that's simple enough.
But then it actually gets
a little more interesting.
Because if you beat the score
that I challenged you to beat,
then actually Game Center will
automatically re-challenge me back.
And then I get a push notification.
Saying that, you know, you beat my score.
And I pull my phone out.
I play the game.
I try to beat your score.
And this will keep on ping-ponging
back and forth between us for
as long as we play the game.
And kind of keep us both engaged in
the game competing with each other.
So, and achievement challenges are very,
very similar.
I can challenge you to earn
a particular achievement.
It all works just in the same way.
So, what's the issue?
Well, you know, let's say that I wanted
to send you a challenge.
So, I have to tap the button
and bring up that,
the leaderboard UI,
and then I can tap myself here,
and it would bring up more detail,
and then I can hit this button here,
this bubble, that says challenge friends.
And then from there,
it's going to bring up a UI where
I would pick the friends I want to
challenge with this particular score,
right?
And, you know, this is,
that's just how it works.
It's fine.
And again, that's kind of the way
that most games work today.
But the issue is really just
the exact same thing that
I said in the last section.
You want to try and find ways that
you can bring this flow up into,
closer to the user,
in the gameplay itself.
So, here's some ideas for
how you can do this.
You know,
the first idea is actually very simple.
If the game is over,
and I've just for the first time
beat one of my friends' scores,
that's an ideal person
to send a challenge to.
So, the game could recognize
that that's the case,
that this has happened,
and then offer a UI just to
send a challenge to that one
person right then and there.
Right?
The second idea,
let's say that I've received challenges.
Well, of course, you know,
the game should really provide some
indication of that when I launch.
You know,
some indicator as I come into the game,
saying that there's challenges
that are pending for you.
And then third,
let's say that I'm playing the game,
and I've beat,
I'm trying to beat a particular
challenge that I've received.
Well, you know,
really think hard about how you could
show that challenge to the other person.
Right?
So,
let's say that I've received a challenge.
Well,
let's say that I've beat a particular
challenge that I've received.
Well,
let's say that I've beat a particular
challenge that I've received.
Right?
So, those are some of the ideas here.
Now, the ingredients of doing this
are actually very similar to what
I just showed you a minute ago.
We have the GK leaderboard,
which can download score data for
the local player and the friends,
just as I showed you a
couple of minutes ago.
This is what you would use
if you were to launch a game.
You would use GK score
and GK achievement.
Of course, that's how you post scores and
achievements into your leaderboards
or into the achievement system.
But you also use those same objects to
issue challenges to the player's friends.
So, there's a built-in UI that
you bring up with challenge
composed controller with players,
a list of players, and a message,
and a completion handler.
And then on the other side,
you have the GK score.
That's to send challenges.
To receive them back,
there's these objects,
the GK challenge and its subclasses,
score challenge and
achievement challenges.
That's how you track the
ones that you've received.
And there's a class method,
load receive challenges
with completion handler.
That's stuff that you should do
when the game starts up to see if
there's anything that's out there.
But now,
so here's a quick example of this.
Let's say that I want to just find out,
like I finished the game,
and I want to find players that have
a lower score than what I just earned.
So I can do that here.
So I'm going to start out,
I'm going to go get the leaderboard data,
just as I showed you a couple slides ago.
I create the leaderboard,
I would set it up,
that's the dot dot dot,
I would go and fetch those scores.
So, so far it's the exact same code.
Now, once I have that array of scores,
it's pretty simple for me to go
through the array and find the
scores that are lower than mine,
than the one I just did.
You know, one real easy way to do it
is to set up an NSPredicate.
So here, an NSPredicate with format,
I specify that the value is
less than what I pass in,
which is the score I just earned.
And I get, can then use NSArray method,
filtered array using predicate.
You know, to give me back a new array,
just with the scores
that are lower than mine.
And probably the first element
in that array is going to be
the one that's closest to mine,
and that might be,
that might be who I would
issue a challenge to.
Right?
And so then I could have some code that's
going to go off and pull that apart and
send off the challenge to that player.
But so that's number two.
Think of ways that you can
bring challenges up into
the primary UI of your game,
either for sending challenges or for
challenges that that player has received.
Okay, and here now is number three,
which is to manage your leaderboards.
You know, I'm sure that you guys have all
seen something kind of like this.
Here is the all-time top
leaderboard for my awesome tanks
game with a lot of players.
But, you know,
if you take kind of a closer look,
you see a lot of this.
You know, what is this?
Well, 9 quintillion, 223 quadrillion,
372 trillion, et cetera, right?
So, what is this number?
This is int64 max, right?
It's the largest signed 64-bit integer.
And so, which is, of course,
the biggest score that can
be submitted to Game Center.
So, you know,
it's kind of doubtful that people
are really earning this score.
Instead,
they're probably finding some way of
just injecting this into your games.
So, this is the game center.
So, this is a problem.
And, you know,
what it goes to is that you really
want your goal here is actually
to be able to use your leaderboard
to drive player engagement.
But people are cheating and posting
fake scores to your leaderboard,
which kind of breaks that flow.
So, we need ways to get rid of that.
And actually, now,
we have three great different
ways that you can do that.
So, the first is something that
I've been doing for a long time.
And it's something that already existed.
But I know that not many
people are using it.
Because any time I see nine quintillion,
et cetera, I know they're not doing this.
And what it is is this.
In iTunes Connect,
when you go and you look at one of
your leaderboards that you've set up,
there's an item there called the
score range that you can set.
And this,
you enter a low value and a high value.
And any scores that are posted to that
leaderboard outside of that range.
aren't going to show up.
And it's even better than just,
they're not just like thrown away.
They actually get stored
by the service and act,
if they're outside of the range,
and act in a way as a honey trap,
trapping that user with a high
score that is outside of the
visible range for your game.
So in a way,
you're kind of like defining the
range of visible light in your,
you know, the bandwidths of visible
light in your game.
And if somebody posts
something in the ultraviolet,
they're cheating,
but nobody will ever see it.
Right?
That's how this works.
And so, and it's very powerful,
and you can set this up
for every leaderboard.
The second thing is that now, in iOS 7,
we are signing score submissions
as they travel between the
Game Center daemon running on your
device and the Game Center service.
So here's our tank game again.
You know, if it's,
if it is posting a legitimate score here,
that's going to go up,
and the Game Center server
will check the signature,
and of course, it's valid in this case,
so it'll go through.
But if somebody is a man in the middle,
and they end up hijacking that
and posting a bogus score,
the signature is not going to match,
and we will just not
accept that submission.
So that's the second thing.
It's something on our side.
Now,
the third one is something that was just
added and is actually really powerful.
So we are now providing a way for you,
the developer, to manage your scores,
manage your leaderboards
from within iTunes Connect.
So you can go into iTunes Connect today
and look at the top 100 scores
that are on your leaderboard,
and you can delete them
if any are invalid,
and you can even block
the user that posted them.
So let's go and -- and this
is available to you already.
And actually,
a lot of you probably got an e-mail
from iTunes Connect just in the
past week or two talking about this.
So let's talk in a little more detail.
If you delete a score, you know,
you're just basically going and kind
of cleaning up your leaderboard.
There's just a button that you can hit.
Delete the score.
Okay.
Confirm.
And it's gone.
So if you do that,
it's going to remove that score
from just that one leaderboard.
And, of course,
that player could come back the next day,
play again, and post, you know,
that same score or whatever
to the leaderboard,
and that's going to show
up just like normal.
this one leaderboard in your game.
So, if there's any others that
need to be cleaned up,
you would have to go
and do those as well.
But that's still very powerful.
You're able to just go in and
clean up those leaderboards.
Now, the second part, though,
is blocking a user.
So, if you have somebody who
is repeatedly posting bogus
scores to your leaderboards,
well, now you can go and you can block
them from submitting anymore.
So, once you do that,
once you block a user,
it's going to remove their scores from
all of your leaderboards for this game,
and it will prevent them from posting
any new scores into any of your
leaderboards from that point forward.
And note that it also
applies to game groups.
So, if you have your app grouped between,
for example, iOS and OS X,
or you've set up a free version
of your game and a paid version of
the game in the same game group,
then if you block a user,
it's going to be across
that entire group.
So, this is very powerful,
and it's something that we expect
that you can use now to eliminate
a lot of the abuse that can be
happening with leaderboards.
But just bear in mind,
this is a big power to have.
It's a pretty big hammer.
And if you're going
to be able to do that,
you're going to have to do a lot of work.
And, you know, use this wisely.
We're giving this capability to you,
the developer.
It's your game.
But, of course,
you want to only use this in cases
where you're certain that you know that
somebody is abusing your scoring system.
But so that is it.
That is number three.
Manage your leaderboards.
Okay.
And that takes me to
the end of Game Center.
Just some great ways for
you to drive some increased
engagement in your game and to,
you know,
kind of go beyond what people are
doing right now with Game Center.
But so next,
I want to just completely change topics.
We're done with Game Center,
and now let's move on
with game controllers.
Okay.
So, game controllers.
You know,
so we announced back at WWDC that
we'd be adding support for physical
game controllers into iOS 7.
And, I mean, this is very exciting,
I think.
Now, I want to go into a lot of the
detail that's involved with this.
So, what we are delivering is
really coming in two parts.
The first part is a spec that we're
providing to the manufacturers of game
controllers who are in the MFI program.
So,
this provides them with the spec defines
a standard way for third-party accessory
developers to build controllers as part
of our made-for-iPhone MFI program.
You know, the spec is going to define all
the physical and technological
requirements of the controllers,
you know, how the controls are laid out,
how they behave,
the data transport between
the controller and iOS,
and so on.
And the real goal of the
spec is very specific.
It's to ensure that when
customers are in a retail store
and they see that MFI label,
that they can be very confident that
they're looking at the box and they
see that with a controller inside.
They can be confident that that
controller is going to work with
games that's on the App Store that
are supporting game controllers.
That is the first piece,
a spec to get consistency among
the different device manufacturers.
The second piece is for you guys,
probably.
It is a framework for developers like
you to be able to add support for
game controllers into your games.
It is a pretty simple API.
It lets you detect the controllers,
connect with them,
and then just go and sample the
inputs that are coming off them.
And, you know,
the goal of this framework, actually, is,
well, it is consistency.
You know,
we want for developers to be able
to take advantage of one consistent
central API for all of the controllers,
regardless of vendor,
so that you can all just kind of
focus on making great games instead
of dealing with vendor-specific
differences in the controllers.
But so, now,
let's go into a little detail.
There's three different kinds of,
or three different classes of controllers
that are supported by the API.
And here's the first one.
So, this is called the
form-fitting standard gamepad.
So,
form-fitting means that the controller
itself physically encases your device.
Your phone just snaps
into the controller.
So, while you're playing,
you can be mashing the buttons,
but then it's also very easy for you
to touch the screen with your fingers
or use device motion to control
the game as well at the same time.
Now, that's form-fitting.
Standard gamepad,
what that refers to is the buttons,
the control layout.
So, a standard gamepad has
a D-pad on the left,
the A, B, X,
and Y buttons over on the right.
With those colors and that pattern.
pattern, and then two shoulder buttons
that are on the front.
Okay, here's the next one.
This is called the
form-fitting extended gamepad.
So, again, this is form-fitting.
The device physically
snaps into the controller,
just like the first one.
But what's different here is
that instead of standard gamepad,
it's extended gamepad.
So it adds a couple more controls.
Two thumbsticks,
one on the left and one on the right,
and two triggers down
below the shoulder buttons.
Okay.
And then here is the third
class of controllers.
This is called a standalone
extended gamepad.
So, here,
the difference is that it is standalone.
It is not physically
attached to your device.
It could be connected over a wire,
but more often it will be connected
wirelessly over Bluetooth.
And the expectation with
a standalone controller,
then,
is that all of the game input is only
being taken from the controller itself.
You're typically not also
interacting with the device or using,
you know, the gyroscope and so on.
Now, standalone extended gamepad.
So, the controls are all the
same as the form-fitting
extended gamepad you just saw.
Okay, so those are the three kinds.
Now,
as far as the controllers themselves,
you know, we mentioned back in June that
we're working very closely with
a number of manufacturers in
our MFI program who are building
controllers like Logitech and Mocha.
And, you know,
now that work has been paying off.
And there are several controllers
that are now available in retail.
I have a couple of them
with me here today.
But so now let me look at how, you know,
just how to integrate these
controllers into your games.
So the main class that you'll use
for this is called GC Controller.
This represents a controller that
is connected with your device.
And, you know,
you use the same class for all
of the different controllers
regardless of vendor.
So what a GC Controller is
going to provide,
well, kind of at a high level,
these three things.
Methods for finding controllers.
So it can give you the connectors,
the controllers that
are currently connected.
It'll give you notifications for
a live connect and disconnect.
And there's methods there to help you
discover any wireless controllers.
Then it'll give you access to all
of the input data off the D-pad,
the buttons, the thumbsticks, triggers.
And also some information
about the controller itself.
We'll tell you its profile,
meaning whether it is
standard or extended game pad.
We'll tell you whether it's
attached or standalone.
We'll tell you the vendor.
We'll tell you a player index
for some lights on the front,
pause button state, that kind of thing.
Okay?
So that's what the class provides.
Let me just kind of show you how
you get connected to one of these.
Really just there's a class,
an array on the class called controllers.
And that's the main entry
point to using this class.
It'll be empty at first
and then it gets updated.
whenever controllers are
connected with your game.
So let me describe visually kind
of the process you typically
go through to set this up.
So it's expected, probably,
that you will have a method in
your app called setupControllers
or something like that,
that you'll use as the
central location for any time
there is a controller change.
You just figure it out from there.
And within that method,
that's where you can go and
look at the controller's array,
see what's there,
and then act accordingly.
But then probably in your application
did finish launching with options,
there's a few things you probably
want to kick off from that point.
This is where you can set up
notifications for connections being
disconnected or connected or disconnected
to calling to setupControllers.
And it's also where you will kick off
discovery of any wireless controllers.
And so you can kind of see
this flow from left to right.
We start wireless discovery.
And then whatever controllers are found,
be they wireless or connected,
form fitting,
will get a connect notification.
The connect notification will
call your setupControllers method.
And then within that method,
you can go and look at the array and see
what's there and then react from that.
So here that is in a bit of code.
We're in application did
finish launching with options.
We start out just, you know,
here's some code first to check
whether the controller class exists
on the OS version we're running,
like Dave was showing you earlier today.
And then assuming it does,
here is where we're setting up those two
notifications for connect and disconnect.
And then here I start kick off the
search for any wireless controllers.
And really,
setup is just kind of that easy.
You know,
here's our setup controllers method.
All I'm doing in here, this is fake code,
right?
It's just going and
looking at that array,
and then I would,
the game would respond accordingly.
Maybe moving inputs.
Input over onto the
controllers and so on.
But really, in a way,
that's the majority of all you
have to do to support a controller.
So now the assumption.
Okay.
We have a controller connected.
I want to show you how
you read its inputs.
And so, again, here are the three classes
of different controllers,
just kind of drawn schematically.
And so, to read the inputs,
you have to understand the
concept of the controller profile.
Because profiles define the controls
that are going to be on the actual
buttons that are on the devices.
So let's recall from earlier,
we have the standard game
pads and extended game pads.
Okay?
So now, let me take a closer look.
Standard game pad first.
Okay, so a standard gamepad
has these four buttons,
A, B, X, and Y, and their type,
which I'll go into in a second,
is GC button input.
The left and right shoulders
that are on the front of the
gamepad are also GC button input.
And then over here on the left,
you have the D pad,
and that's a different type,
GC direction pad.
Okay, so hold that thought.
Here's the other kind of controller.
Looking at the extended
gamepad profile now.
Okay.
So, this has all of the same
controls as the standard gamepad.
It is a pure superset, always.
So, it has A, B, X, and Y,
left and right shoulder, and a D-pad,
always.
And then it adds the left
and right thumb stick,
which is of type GC direction pad,
and left and right triggers on the front,
which are back to buttons,
button inputs again.
Okay.
So, just to have run through that now,
we see there's really
just two types of inputs.
We have button inputs and
we have direction pads.
So, looking at button inputs.
So this is used again
for the face buttons,
the shoulder buttons, and the triggers.
And this type is sort of overloaded.
There's two different ways that you
can get values out of one button,
for example.
We can provide a Boolean value
for whether the button is pressed,
kind of its classic button state,
just coming back as a Boolean.
But also, all of our controls are analog,
including the buttons,
including the triggers, and so on.
They are all pressure sensitive.
And so we can get a float value
out of any of these buttons
normalized from zero to one.
Okay?
And you choose depending
on the needs of your game.
Now, again,
they are all pressure sensitive,
regardless of whether
it's a standard game pad,
or extended game pad.
All of the controls
are pressure sensitive.
So, that was a button.
Now, that other type was a direction pad.
Again, this is used for the
D-pad and the thumbsticks.
And again, this is another type that
is kind of overloaded.
It can be treated in two different ways.
The D-pad can either be treated,
and the joysticks,
as four separate buttons up, down, left,
and right of type button input,
or they can be treated as two axes
with a new type controller axis input.
You know,
either the X and the Y axis there.
[ Transcript missing ]
Okay.
So that's the pause button.
Here's a quick example.
If you go back and you think of
that setup controllers method
that I was talking about earlier,
here's where you would
add the pause handler.
It's very simple.
Just on the controller that's connected,
you can set up a
controller paused handler.
It takes a block,
and then within that block,
you just do whatever you're going to do
to handle the pause button being toggled.
Okay, so that's the first.
The other one is the player indicators.
So, on extended controllers,
these are mandatory, and on standard,
they're optional.
I'm sure you can all see up here,
there's four little lights up
on the face of the controller
that show the player index.
And we provide you with an
API to get and set those lights.
And they'll be persistent for your game.
And we actually,
we recommend that you set them.
So, the reason is, you know,
set the lights, for one thing,
so that the user immediately
recognizes or knows that your game
is recognizing the controller and,
like,
the control input is going to be moved
over onto the physical controller.
But then, also, if you have a game that
supports multiple controllers,
you know, like, because they could,
you could have multiple wireless
controllers connected to your game,
if your game supports that,
then you can use this and, you know,
you would have something in your game
that would let the players decide,
I'm player one, I'm player two,
et cetera.
And then you would set those indices
accordingly on the controllers
themselves through this API.
Okay, so that is the player indicators.
So, now, where are we?
I've shown you how to
connect to controllers,
how to read their inputs,
and a few extra things
that you need to handle.
So now I want to wrap up this
session just with some advice
and some best practices,
essentially, for, you know,
really ways to think about how you
can use controllers within your game
and make it work with controllers.
And the first piece of advice
is really just to really
think through your controls,
you know, and comparing to the controls
that you have today already.
You know, touch and motion are really,
they're ideal for games that
support direct interaction like
John was talking about this morning.
You know, taps, gestures, and swipes.
And think about controllers
as a way to augment that,
you know, especially in games that
need tactile feedback for an
indirect interaction model,
right?
So, you know,
games that need really precise timing
to do really tight moves or perform,
you know, different actions.
And, you know, think about the case of a
form-fitting controller.
You know, having touch along with
the controls is really,
really important.
And I think that, you know,
having touch along with form-fitting
put together can really kind
of provide you with ideal
circumstances for both situations.
You know,
really precise physical controls
for indirect manipulation,
plus, you know,
being able to still do direct
manipulation just with your,
you know, with the user's hand or with
device motion right on screen.
Now, the second piece of advice,
you know, some best practices.
Something to remember is that your
game cannot require a controller.
Controllers are always optional.
Every game on the App Store must
be able to work without a
controller being attached.
And your game should
support both profiles,
both standard gamepad
profile and extended gamepad.
And you really have to think about how
maybe the game will behave differently,
you know, with the existence of
thumbsticks versus without,
when you only have a D-pad
and buttons and the shoulders.
But be sure that you support
both of those cases so that
players can go and they can know,
no matter which device they buy,
it's going to work.
if you say that you support controllers.
And, you know, also think you should
support both form factors,
both the form fitting,
which is both of these up here,
but also the standalone controller,
which I haven't shown you one of,
but we have one over
in the lab to look at.
You know,
think about how your game should behave
differently depending on whether the
user can touch the screen or not.
And then last is don't forget to
include support for the pause button.
In most cases,
you should just treat it as a toggle.
Pause if you're active,
and go active if you're paused.
Two more things.
So, you know,
another thing to think about is just how
your game should react to controllers
being connected and disconnected.
Right?
So, if you detect that a
controller has been connected,
meaning you set up a
notification and there,
boom, there's a controller, well,
you should treat that as an
expression of the user's intent.
So, enable the controller.
Move your input, you know,
move to controller-based input.
And perhaps think about changes
that happen in the game.
You may have a control
overlay that you put on,
you know, that you put on screen.
Maybe that should be moved aside or
maybe off screen entirely when the
player is connected with a controller.
And also, light up that player indicator
LED so the player knows that,
ah, I'm using the controller.
And you can see that the player is
using the controller buttons now.
Now, when a player disconnects, also,
that may be an expression of intent
or it could be unintentional.
So, in case it was unintentional,
an unintentional disconnection,
that's someplace where you should
always pause the gameplay on disconnect.
And then, of course, you know,
move the controls back to your regular
on-screen or device motion controls.
Okay, so that's those.
And now just a couple
of closing thoughts.
You know, one more time.
Again, really think it through how you
would support these different
profiles and different form factors.
You know, the standard gamepad adds
10 new buttons to your game.
And the extended gamepad adds 14.
So, you need to be really clear about how
you will design your game to those
inputs or whether you will even.
But, you know,
make sure that you have a really solid,
you know,
gameplay experience worked out if
you're planning to support controllers.
You know,
and because I would say it this way,
you know, this is your UI.
It is the most,
it is the thing that matters
most in terms of your gameplay.
So it's got to be fantastic.
You know,
really go and test with the controllers.
Get them from the retail stores and keep,
you know,
keep working on with it until you are
so happy with the way the controls work
that you know that you are ready to ship.
But so I think, you know,
the opportunity is there.
I think that players are going to have
a great time with controllers and,
you know,
hopefully they'll pick them up from
the retail stores and we'll see a
lot of your games supporting them.
I'm really excited about it.
But so that takes me to
the end of the session.
For more information,
you're welcome to contact me.
Here's my email address or come
find us in the developer forums.
So thank you very much.